ENDEAVORS EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK
Effective January 1, 2025
Supersedes all prior Policies and Procedures

Corporate Office:
6363 De Zavala Road
San Antonio, Texas 78249
Phone: (210) 431-6466
HR Fax: (210) 431-6472

AT-WILL STATEMENT
This Handbook, which contains a summary of Endeavors Employee benefits, personnel policies, and workplace practices is effective October 1, 2020, and supersedes all other Employee manuals, policies and previous practices. Endeavors reserves the right to change, supplement, rescind, or deviate from the policies as it deems appropriate, in its sole and absolute discretion. These policies may not be changed without the written approval of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO).
The contents of this handbook are presented as a guideline only and do not constitute a contract of employment or of any particular policy or benefit. Employment with Endeavors is on an at-will basis. Accordingly, employment may be terminated at any time by Endeavors or the Employee, for any reason or no reason, with or without notice. This disclaimer does not affect an employee’s right to alter this at-will status through a collective bargaining agreement.
If you have any questions about any matters addressed in this Handbook, or any policies of Endeavors, contact your Supervisor, Human Resources, or the CEO for clarification.
Endeavors’ corporate office is in San Antonio, Texas and this handbook reflects policies and practices that are in accordance with federal law and the state of Texas. Endeavors’ policies and practices will be modified to the extent necessary to comply with all applicable state laws in whatever state Endeavors has employees. Modified policies will be provided to all employees within each state. Texas employees temporarily working in another state remain Texas employees, but may be subject to some regulations in the state they are temporarily working.

MISSION STATEMENT
Endeavors passionately serves vulnerable people in crisis through our innovative, personalized approach.
VISION
We are committed to providing a helping hand to restore dignity and improve the quality of life for every client, every time, in every community we serve.
Our Core Values:
- Accountability and Integrity: We exhibit integrity and accountability in all interactions with our clients, coworkers, and stakeholders by maintaining transparency, doing what is right and assuming complete ownership and responsibility for our actions.
- Care and Compassion: We deliver all services with care and compassion using a person-centered approach to ensure clients feel safe, valued, and understood. We are active listeners and respectful communicators, exhibiting empathy in all that we do.
- Teamwork: We are committed to a culture that combines mutual respect and the open sharing of thoughts and ideas with the willingness of individuals to work collaboratively in support of our client, employee, and stakeholder needs and to achieve the common goals of the organization.
- Commitment to Making a Difference: Our work will have a measurable impact on the lives of the people and communities that we serve.
- Community Involvement: We believe in the value of engagement with stakeholders and other community representatives to bring positive change to the communities where we deliver services.

Our Work: Endeavors is a national non profit that assists more than 100,000 clients each year. Our work centers around homelessness, unemployment, child abuse, disabilities, and disasters by connecting individuals and families to services like education, crisis intervention, case management, homeless prevention services, parent training, practical life skills, and vocational support, training, and employment.
Our Approach: Endeavors is a dynamic organization, always seeking to improve. By hiring the best and brightest employees, constantly taking inventory of our work, and embedding our mission and values into each part of our organization, it is our greatest hope that we are able to measurably improve the lives and livelihoods of our customers in efficient, sustainable ways.
Endeavors is a faith-based organization based on Judeo Christian principles. The five churches that founded our organization in 1969 followed these principles while providing social welfare services to the community. We practice diversity and inclusion with our employees and those we serve. We welcome participation in our beliefs while respecting the beliefs of others. We accomplish the intent of our founders by seeking to provide expanded services in our community.
Non-Proselytizing Policy: Endeavors will not proselytize, nor will we enter or maintain business relationships with entities or individuals who require proselytizing as a part of their work with Endeavors. This means Endeavors will not enter or maintain business relationships on the express or implied condition that the people we serve must follow, or convert to, particular religious beliefs; or promote or condone messaging while we are providing services that is meant to induce those we serve to convert to a particular faith.
For the purposes of this Employee Handbook, we will refer to Chief Executives, Sr. Directors, Directors, Managers, Supervisors and Leads collectively as “Leadership.” Employees report to Leadership directly as their Chain of Command.

CHILD & ELDER ABUSE
Endeavors’ programs are committed to the physical, emotional, spiritual, intellectual, and social well-being of children, seniors, and those with disabilities. Therefore, we will pursue all reasonable measures to assist those maltreated. Endeavors will:
- Cooperate with official child and adult protective agencies in identifying and reporting suspected abuse and neglect;
- Provide abuse awareness in-service education, including legal requirements, for child care personnel;
- Encourage inclusion of appropriate abuse awareness education in all facilities; and
- Provide guidelines for reporting and follow-up by personnel.
- Ensure all suspected abuse must be reported to a supervisor.

CONFIDENTIALITY
You will be held responsible for respecting the confidentiality of all information you have access to or become aware of in the course of your employment. Endeavors’ proprietary and confidential information are and shall remain the property of Endeavors. Confidential client information must not be disclosed or used on behalf of anyone other than Endeavors, either during your employment or at any time thereafter, unless authorized or legally obligated to do so.
You have signed a Code of Business Ethics pledging to protect and not misuse confidential information. The unauthorized possession, use, copying or disclosure of confidential or proprietary information may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination. Contact your leadership if you have questions regarding this policy.

CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECK
Depending upon the position offered, you may be required to authorize Endeavors to conduct a criminal background check on you. Updated criminal background checks will be conducted on an as needed basis. As required by state or federal law or regulations, individuals hired for certain positions will be required to provide their fingerprints for additional background checks.
If an applicant begins employment before completion of a criminal background check, such employment is contingent upon satisfactory criminal background check results.
Failure to disclose requested information may result in termination. A criminal conviction will not necessarily disqualify an applicant from employment. The date and nature of the offense and the position for which the applicant is applying will be considered.

DRESS CODE AND GROOMING
The Endeavors casual dress code policy is designed to promote a comfortable work environment, but also provide clear guidance on professional appearance standards when meeting with customers and professional colleagues. Our appearance reflects on ourselves and the company. The goal is to be sure that we maintain a positive appearance and not to offend customers, clients, or colleagues.
Leadership is responsible for oversight, implementation and direction of this policy. While the policy provides minimum standards of appearance, Leadership can issue more restrictive guidance when warranted. At its discretion, Leadership can enforce business casual or business formal environments on days when scheduled visitors will be in the office.
Endeavors must ensure each employee is well groomed and follows minimum standards of dress code guidelines at all times, but especially when representing Endeavors to the public.
Endeavors wants employees to be comfortable at work while maintaining a high level of professionalism in the services that we provide. This means that if you work behind the desk or in the field, then you can wear khakis, jeans, casual shoes and a collared or company polo shirt to conduct day-to-day business. Program Directors, executive staff and above will maintain business casual attire throughout the week and will observe casual Fridays where applicable.
A casual dress code policy does not mean that what you would wear to the beach, yard work, club or gym are appropriate for a professional, casual work environment. Clothing that reveals cleavage, your back, your chest, your stomach or your underwear is never appropriate for a place of business. Clothing should be pressed and never wrinkled. Torn, dirty, or frayed clothing is unacceptable. The key is causal, comfortable and practical for work. Any items that are distracting or offensive to others will not be acceptable.
Specific clothing that is not allowed to be worn by employees while working includes, but is not limited to, the following:
- tattered jeans, jeans with decoration (rhinestones, excessive stitching) or shorts
- shirts with language or graphics that are sexually explicit, or otherwise offensive
- attire that is revealing or provocative
- flip-flops or any type of loose footwear
- sweat suits
- see-through blouses or shirts
- sports bras, halter tops, or similar attire
- tank tops/spaghetti straps
- clothing that allows bare midriffs
In cases where you will visit clients or customers, business casual attire is the expectation. Employees working in programs such as DCM or Outreach should comply with a dress code appropriate to the work environment.
Contact Human Resources if, based upon your sincerely held religious beliefs, you need a reasonable accommodation to this policy.

DRIVING HISTORY / MOTOR VEHICLE REPORT
If you are in a position that requires, or may require the operation of an Endeavors vehicle or you drive any vehicle in relationship to any Endeavors business you must have a valid driver’s license, current insurance and an acceptable driving record. Drivers may be required to submit to a drug test and will participate in driver safety and fleet management training.
A motor vehicle report (MVR) may be run upon hire and annually thereafter. Refusal to sign the authorization or unacceptable results will result in either removal from the position, transfer to another position, or termination of employment. You are required to report motor vehicle accidents or moving violations to your supervisor by the end of your shift.

DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE
It is the objective of Endeavors to provide a safe workplace and to promote high standards of employee health, safety and productivity. Further, it is our objective to protect Endeavors property and maintain a favorable public image. This policy applies to all employees, contractors, interns, and temporary workers.
Endeavors is committed to maintaining a safe, productive work environment at all Endeavors facilities and work sites and to safeguarding Endeavors property. The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession, or use of alcohol and/or drugs and/or inhalants and/or controlled substances in the workplace is prohibited because it is unsafe and it undermines employee productivity, the quality of Endeavors’ services, and the Endeavors image. For these reasons, Endeavors has implemented this Drug-Free Workplace Policy.
Endeavors reserves the right to inspect and search our premises for these substances. We reserve the right to conduct random alcohol and drug tests at any time. The search may include, but not be limited to, desks, lockers, cabinets, furniture, personal items brought onto Endeavors premises (e.g., purses, backpacks, briefcases, etc.) and all other areas on or about the Endeavors premises. Employees have no reasonable expectation of privacy for any use of company property or for their personal items on Endeavors premises. If you violate this policy, refuse to be tested, or provide false information, you will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination.
Endeavors may report confirmed information concerning a violation of this Policy to appropriate law enforcement officials. Any drugs, paraphernalia or substances found on Endeavors premises will be turned over to the custody of law enforcement officials. Endeavors will cooperate in the prosecution of any violator of the law.
If an employee is convicted of violating a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace, the employee must notify Human Resources and his/her Leadership no later than five (5) calendar days after such conviction.
New hires will be given a copy of this policy on the first day of employment. A signed Acknowledgment of this policy will be obtained from each employee and this form will be kept in the employee’s personnel file.
Prohibited Conduct: We am committed to having a drug-free workplace. In that connection, for purposes of this policy, the mere intake of illegal drugs constitutes substance abuse and is prohibited. The sale, purchase, manufacture, distribution, transfer, possession, or use of drugs or drug paraphernalia, or the abuse or being under the influence of drugs or alcohol in the workplace are strictly prohibited when you report to work, are present at the workplace, in vehicles on Endeavors business, or when performing any work for or on behalf of Endeavors.
Definitions:
- Endeavors Premises: includes all property owned, leased, used or under the control of Endeavors, including, but not limited to, all inside and outside areas, parking lots, restrooms, lockers, desks, Endeavors vehicles, and private vehicles on Endeavors premises or used in connection with Endeavors business.
- Drugs: includes abuse of prescription drugs, abuse of over-the-counter medications or other substances; use of illegal drugs, alcoholic beverages, inhalants, and “synthetic” or “designer” drugs. This Policy does not apply to legally prescribed medications for which the employee has in his/her possession a current prescription when taken as directed by the employee’s healthcare provider and which do not impair the employee’s job performance or safety of the employee or other persons. All other prescribed drugs are deemed “drugs.” Endeavors may test applicants and employees for the presence of drugs and/or alcohol. The company also reserves the right to conduct random drug testing.
- Drug Paraphernalia: are any items used or intended for use in making, packaging, concealing, injecting, inhaling, or consuming illegal drugs, alcohol or inhalants.
- Policy: means the Drug-Free Workplace Policy.
- Reasonable Suspicion: is a belief based upon objective facts sufficient to lead a reasonably prudent person to suspect that an employee is using or under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
- Transacting Endeavors Business: means any activity performed while in the course and scope of Endeavors employment, on or off Endeavors premises.
- Under the Influence: is defined as the mere intake of “drugs.”
Procedure for Reasonable Suspicion: It is the responsibility of all employees to report any violation or breach of this Policy and to cooperate in any resulting investigation. If Leadership or a co-worker has a reasonable suspicion that an employee has reported to work or is present on Endeavors premises, in a Endeavors vehicle, or is transacting Endeavors business while under the influence of drugs or alcohol, they must immediately notify Human Resources.
Employees are subject to testing based upon (but not limited to) observations by supervision of apparent workplace use, possession or impairment, or on-the-job injury. Human Resources must be consulted before sending an employee for testing. After such approval, the employee’s supervisor will direct the employee to complete a drug test. The employee will be escorted by his/her Leadership to the drug testing facility. Under no circumstances will the employee be allowed to drive himself or herself to the testing facility. The escort will make arrangements for the employee to be transported home.
Employees will not be paid pending the results of the drug test. If the test results are negative, the employee will receive pay for the time missed to take the test as well the time away from work waiting for the test results.
Positive Test Result: Employees and applicants are responsible for notifying the testing facility of any legal medication or over the counter drug or of any reason that could cause positive test results. Endeavors will request that the testing facility run a confirmatory test on any positive test result. If the confirmatory test is positive, applicants will not be hired and employees will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Confidentiality and Privacy: Endeavors is concerned with employee privacy. Any information regarding an employee’s dependency on drugs or alcohol, treatment of drug or alcohol abuse, and the results of a drug or alcohol testing will be kept as confidential as possible and disclosed only on a need-to-know basis.

GIFTS/PRIZES
Endeavors employees are encouraged to use their best judgement when offered gifts, money, or prizes by clients or vendors. For guidance, please refer to Endeavors Organizational Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards Policy and Procedure. Standard 5.1

ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS AND COMMUNICATIONS
Endeavors uses electronic and communication systems to support and enhance business operations. These include computer hardware and software, internet/online services, mobile devices, e-mail systems, copiers, printers, scanners, facsimile and telephones. All electronic systems and data (e.g. e-mail, computer data, faxes and voice mail etc.) are the property of Endeavors. Employees should refrain from using Endeavors equipment to check personal email accounts for cybersecurity reasons. The Mobile Device Management Standards and Guidelines must be adhered to so that Endeavors may document the security and configurations standards, including set-up, groups, roles, responsibilities and privileges for in-scope mobile devices using Mobile Device Management (MDM) applications provided by Endeavors.
You are expected to respect all copyrights, license agreements, property rights, and the privacy of others. Modifying or changing any electronic systems, including the loading of software programs must have prior approval from the IT department.
The content of all e-mails, instant messages, text messages, fax’s, copies, telephone calls as well as all types of files created, modified or saved on the computer must conform to Endeavors’ policies and ethical business standards. Use of electronic systems, including internet/online services, for activities such as solicitation of goods; sending or forwarding computer spam, destructive viruses, files or programs; or accessing/communicating in any way material that would violate Endeavors’ Harassment and Discrimination Policy is prohibited.
When an employee’s interest is averse to the company’s, the employee is not authorized to use company computers or systems.
You have no reasonable expectation of privacy with respect to information stored in either a server or shared internet storage by Endeavors, or on the hard drive of any individual computer, including the one you are assigned to use, within any of the offices or facilities.
Endeavors reserves the right to maintain the security and integrity of its electronic systems. To the extent permitted by applicable state and federal law, Endeavors may log into, intercept and read the entire content of any electronic message, telephone or voice mail communication or data transmitted or stored in Endeavors’ systems. This includes computer files, electronic messages, e-mail and voice mail that have been deleted by users. Electronic communications and data are company property; employees have no reasonable expectation of privacy in their company email, voicemail, text messages or any other information stored or accessed on company computers.
All email is subject to review by management. Your use of the email system grants consent to the review of any messages to or from you stored in the system, in printed form or in any other medium.
In line with our general non-solicitation policy, email must not be used to solicit for outside business ventures, personal parties, social meetings, charities, membership in any organization, political causes, religious causes or other matters not connected to the company’s business.
Examples of prohibited uses of email, text messages and social media include, but are not limited to:
- Viewing, storing, soliciting, or forwarding pornographic images or other perceived obscene, racist, or harassing materials.
- Sending electronic mail that is non-business related, obscene, racist, harassing, jokes, violent, or otherwise offensive.
- Solicitation, distribution or forwarding electronic games, music, video, or other non-business-related materials.
- Solicitation, distribution or forwarding of non-work-related information, such as requests for signatures, charitable contributions, support of political or organizational activities.
- Requests for donations.
- Bidding/purchasing of merchandise or services.
- Forwarding electronic chain letters

CELLULAR PHONES
Endeavors will offer the option of a company cell phone or a stipend for cellular phone service to employees whose duties and responsibilities require cellular wireless access to telephone and/or data service. See the Technology and System Plan Policy and Procedure (L-1 Stipend Plan) for full explanation.
A monthly stipend may be issued to those employees whose duties require the use of a cell phone. The employee would be responsible for acquiring a cell phone account and cell phone, and would bear all costs for equipment and services. Employees who are eligible for a stipend must submit reimbursement requests by the 5th of the following month or risk forfeiture of the stipend at the supervisor’s discretion.
Most employees that would need to use a cell phone for business purposes already have a personal cell phone account. The cellular phone service falling under the Stipend Plan will not to be purchased by, licensed or directly billed to Endeavors. The monthly stipend may be taxable income; therefore the individual may be taxed according to the regulations of the IRS code. By participating in the Stipend Plan, employees agree that they have no reasonable expectation of privacy in their work-related cell phone use and Endeavors may search their cell phone and cell phone account for any work-related use.
Only employees authorized by their Leadership using established criteria may participate in the Cell Phone Stipend Program. Reasons for requiring an employee to have a cell phone are:
- Safety requirements indicate having cell phone service is an integral part of performing duties of the job description.
- More than 50% of work is conducted in the field.
- Employee is required to be contacted on a regular basis (no office).
- Employee is unavailable much of the time by any other means than cell phone.
- Employee is required to be on-call outside of normal work hours.
- Employee is a critical decision maker.

SOCIAL MEDIA
The following principles apply to professional use of social media on behalf of Endeavors as well as personal use of social media when referencing Endeavors:
- Employees need to know and comply with the Endeavors’ Organizational Code of Ethics, Employee Handbook, and other company policies when using social media in reference to the organization.
- Employees should be aware of the effect their actions or posts on social media may have on their images, as well as Endeavors’ image. The information that employees post or publish may be public information for a long time.
- Employees should be aware that Endeavors may observe content and information made available by employees through social media.
- Employees should use good judgment in posting material that is neither inappropriate nor harmful to Endeavors as an organization, its employees, persons served, and stakeholders.
- Although not an exclusive list, some specific examples of prohibited social media conduct include posting commentary, content, or images that are defamatory, pornographic, proprietary, harassing, libelous, or that can create a hostile work environment.
- Employees may not publish, post, or release any information that is considered confidential or not public. If there are questions about what is considered confidential, employees should check with Human Resources or supervisor.
- Social media networks, blogs and other types of online content sometimes generate press and media attention or legal questions. Unless the employee is engaging in concerted activity protected under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), Employees should refer these inquiries to authorized Endeavors’ spokespersons.
- If employees find or encounter a situation while using social media that threatens to become antagonistic, employees should disengage from the dialogue in a polite manner and seek the advice of Leadership.
- Employees must get appropriate permission before referencing or posting images of current or former employees, members, vendors or suppliers. Additionally, employees must get appropriate permission to use a third party's copyrights, copyrighted material, trademarks, service marks or other intellectual property.
- Social media use shouldn't interfere with employee’s responsibilities at Endeavors.
- Endeavors’ computer systems are to be used for business purposes only. When using Endeavors’ computer systems, use of social media for business purposes is allowed (ex: Facebook, Twitter, Endeavors’ blogs and LinkedIn), but personal use of social media networks or personal blogging of online content is prohibited and could result in disciplinary action.
- Subject to applicable law, after-hours online activity that violates Endeavors’ Organizational Code of Ethics or any other company policy may subject an employee to disciplinary action up to and including termination.
- If employees publish content after-hours that involves work or subjects associated with Endeavors, a disclaimer should be used, such as this: “The postings on this site are my own and may not represent Endeavors’ positions, strategies or opinions.”
- It is highly recommended that employees keep Endeavors related social media accounts separate from personal accounts, if practical.
Policy violations will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination for cause.

GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Endeavors desires to create an environment in which every employee feels free to openly discuss his/her concerns or grievances without fear of retaliation. If you have a conflict with a co-worker you are encouraged to respectfully address it with him/her. Many issues can be successfully resolved when people communicate directly in an honest and constructive manner.
Any employee who identifies a problem with regard to client care or other issues should present his/her concern to his/her supervisor. If the employee is unable to reconcile it with his/her supervisor, the employee should present the issue to successively higher levels of authority within the Endeavors’ chain of command until a satisfactory resolution is achieved. All employees are expected to invoke this procedure in furtherance of client services, safety and the organization’s mission, values and goals.
Complaints or concerns regarding discrimination or harassment may be taken immediately to Leadership or Human Resources. Nothing in this policy is intended to restrict an employee’s right to engage in any concerted activities protected under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA).
Remember that the way to resolve any difficulty is to make it known, be willing to listen to the other person and seek a mutually satisfactory solution.

EMPLOYMENT CLASSIFICATIONS
Endeavors employment classifications are defined below to provide understanding of employment status and benefit eligibility. They do not guarantee employment for any specified period of time nor do they void the at-will employment relationship.
Your first ninety (90) days of employment are considered an Introductory Period which is a time of training and learning your job responsibilities and the role of your position and department in the organization. At the end of the Introductory Period, your supervisor will review job performance with you and determine if any additional training is necessary. It is important to note that during and at the end of the introductory period, employees can be terminated for not meeting expectations.
Exempt and Nonexempt Employees: Every employee is designated as either nonexempt or exempt from federal wage and hour laws.
If you are NONEXEMPT, you are paid on an hourly basis and are entitled to overtime pay at time and a half your regular hourly rate for hours worked over 40 in the 7-day workweek. The Endeavors workweek begins at 12:01 a.m. Saturday and ends at midnight Friday. If you are EXEMPT, you are paid on a salary basis for all hours worked during the workweek.
Employment Categories: In addition to the above, you will be designated in one of the below categories:
- FULL-TIME: Employees in a non-temporary/seasonal position regularly scheduled to work 30 or more hours per workweek. Generally, they are eligible for Endeavors’ full benefit package, subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of each benefit program.
- PART-TIME WITH BENEFITS: Employees in a non-temporary position who are regularly scheduled to work between 20 and 29 hours per workweek. They are eligible for partial PTO benefits.
- PART-TIME NO BENEFITS: Employees who are regularly scheduled to work less than 20 hours per workweek or who work on an on-call basis. Ineligible for PTO.
- TEMPORARY OR SEASONAL: Employees who are hired to temporarily supplement the work force as interim replacements or to assist in the completion of a specific project. Hired for limited duration. Ineligible for all of Endeavors’ benefit programs.

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Endeavors does not discriminate in any aspect of employment, including recruiting, hiring, training, promotions, transfers, wages and benefits, layoff or termination, or any other terms and conditions of employment. It is the continuing policy of Endeavors that all persons are entitled to equal employment opportunity, regardless of race, color, national origin, citizenship, sex (including pregnancy, sexual orientation, and gender identity), age, religion, disability, veteran’s status, or any other legally protected class.
Endeavors prohibits and has zero tolerance for any type of workplace discrimination or harassment. Employees who witness or experience workplace discrimination or harassment must comply with the “Steps for Reporting” provision of the Harassment and Discrimination Policy. Violators will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including immediate termination.

HARASSMENT AND DISCRIMINATION
Endeavors strives to provide all Employees a work environment free of discrimination and harassment and prohibits all unlawful workplace discrimination and harassment. Actions, words, jokes, comments, or any written documentation based upon an individual’s Legally Protected Class will not be tolerated.
Sexual Harassment: Sexual harassment can take a variety of forms. It includes both physical violence and more subtle forms of violence such as coercion or the creation of a hostile work environment. The two categories of sexual harassment are:
1. Quid pro quo (Latin for “this for that”): refers to an exchange; e.g. acceptance of sexual advances in exchange for a job, raise, or promotion.
2. Hostile work environment: conduct of a sexual nature that creates an uncomfortable work environment.
Other Forms of Harassment: Verbal, visual or physical harassment based upon legally protected class is prohibited when it denigrates, threatens, or shows hostility towards an individual or group, or unreasonably interferes with work performance.
Steps for Reporting: Should you experience or witness any form of discriminatory conduct or harassment, you should immediately report it to your Leadership or Human Resources. A written statement giving the date, time, and specific details of the incident is preferred but not required. You may report to your direct supervisor, someone higher in your Leadership Chain of Command, or to Human Resources.
Action Taken: Human Resources will investigate all reports. Appropriate disciplinary action will be taken against violators.
Prohibition of Retaliation: Retaliation against anyone complaining of harassment is strictly prohibited and will result in termination.

WORKPLACE VIOLENCE
Endeavors prohibits violent acts or threats of violence against our employees. We are committed to maintaining a safe workplace. Report any incidents to HR or Leadership immediately.
Violent behavior of any sort, including, but not limited to, verbal or written abuse, threats, stalking, harassment, horseplay, fighting, temper tantrums or other disruptive behavior, physical attacks, etc. is prohibited.
Weapons of any sort, such as firearms or knives, are prohibited on Endeavors property, including buildings, parking lots and grounds or vehicles. Licensed employees may transport and store their licensed handgun and ammunition in their locked, privately owned vehicles in parking areas.
Endeavors retains the right to conduct inspections and searches of lockers, desks, offices, purses, vehicles, etc. on company premises. Employees do not have a reasonable expectation of privacy in these areas.

WHISTLE Blower Policy
All employees are expected to act ethically and comply with rules. Report suspected infractions to the Corporate Compliance Officer. Reports can be submitted anonymously and will be handled confidentially.

LIABILITY INSURANCE
Endeavors maintains automobile and professional liability insurance. Drivers must produce proof of current insurance. Professional staff must maintain their professional licensure.

LICENSES, CERTIFICATION AND REQUIRED TRAINING
It is your responsibility to maintain your license or certification required for your job. Failure to do so may result in termination.

NON-SOLICITATION/DISTRIBUTION
Solicitation for any cause in working areas or via email is not permitted. Catalogue or brochures may be left in break areas.

PERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS AND NEPOTISM
Marriage or romantic involvement between Leadership and a subordinate in the same Chain of Command creates a potential conflict of interest. Employees must notify HR and Leadership. Action will be taken (such as transfer of one party).
Nepotism (favoritism toward relatives) is forbidden. You will not report to or supervise a relative, roommate, boyfriend, or girlfriend. "Relative" includes spouse, child, parent, grandparent, sibling, in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, or first cousin.

PERSONNEL RECORDS
Personnel records are maintained securely by HR. Employees may review their personnel file upon written request, in the presence of HR staff. Copies will not be provided.

PRIVACY
All property, office equipment, parking lots, etc. are for company business. Employees have no expectation of privacy. Personally owned locks are prohibited on company offices/furniture.

SAFETY
Endeavors conducts regular safety drills. Report all workplace hazards and accidents immediately to your supervisor.

TRANSFERS
Employees may be subject to transfers based on business requirements. Refusal of a company-initiated transfer may result in termination.

USE OF COMPANY RESOURCES
Company equipment (laptops, phones, tools) is for business use. Employees must sign receipts. Paychecks may be reduced for replacement cost of lost/damaged equipment. All equipment must be returned upon separation.

WORK SCHEDULES, BREAKS AND PERSONAL MATTERS
Office hours vary. Breaks are a privilege, not a right. Brief and non-disruptive. Bringing children to work is prohibited.
Telework: Permitted only under exceptional circumstances with leadership authorization. Employees are expected to work their regular scheduled hours.
Work Product: All materials created during employment belong to Endeavors.

ATTENDANCE AND PUNCTUALITY
Tardiness and absences lead to discipline. Scheduled absences require at least 5 business days advance submission and approval.
Unscheduled Absence Notification: Call in no later than 9:00 a.m. to supervisor. Failure to call in for 2 consecutive days is considered voluntary job abandonment (termination).
Limitations on Absences & Tardies (rolling 12-month period):
- 2 unscheduled absences: No Action
- 3 unscheduled absences: First Warning
- 4 unscheduled absences: Second Warning
- 5 unscheduled absences: Final Warning
- Unscheduled Tardies carry the same warning thresholds (2 = No action, 3 = First warning, 4 = Second warning, 5 = Final warning).

CONDUCT AND PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE
Discipline follows a progressive plan: coaching, verbal warning, written/final warning, termination. Steps can be skipped for severe violations. Prohibited conduct includes: theft, neglect of duty, gambling, drug policy violations, insubordination.
Inclement Weather: CEO/COO determines delayed openings/closures. Announced on website/notification system. If transport is dangerous and no announcement, assume closed if state police request drivers stay off roads. Non-exempt employees get paid if office closes early or is closed. Exempt employees get paid their regular salary. If office is open but employee stays home, non-exempt must use PTO. Exempt employees will use 8 hours of PTO.

MILEAGE
Mileage reimbursement for work travel in private vehicles must be submitted by the 5th of the following month or risk forfeiture.

BUSINESS TRAVEL
Travel Expense Reports must be submitted by the following Monday or by the 5th of the month following travel to receive reimbursement.
Other Reimbursements: Must be submitted by the 5th of the following month.

OVERTIME
Non-exempt employees get overtime (1.5x rate) for hours worked over 40 in a workweek. Overtime must be pre-authorized.

PAYCHECKS AND PAY PERIODS
Paydays are semi-monthly on the 8th and 23rd of each month (or previous business day if weekend/holiday). Direct deposit is highly encouraged.

PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS
Conducted annually.

SALARY DEDUCTIONS
Mandatory tax and court-ordered deductions will be made. Deductions for replacement costs of unreturned company equipment will be taken from final check.

TIMEKEEPING
Non-exempt employees must submit timesheets daily. No employee may clock in/out for another.

HOLIDAYS
Paid holidays: New Year’s Day, MLK Jr. Day, President’s Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving, Thanksgiving Friday, Christmas Eve, Christmas, New Year’s Eve, Juneteenth.

BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Full-time: up to 5 days paid bereavement leave. Part-time: up to 5 days unpaid bereavement leave. Can extend up to 10 days using PTO.

FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE (FMLA)
Eligible after 12 months employment and 1,250 hours worked. Up to 12 weeks unpaid, job-protected leave.

JURY DUTY
Full-time: paid up to 10 working days. Part-time: unpaid.

PAID TIME OFF (PTO)
PTO Accrual Rates:
- Part-Time: 0.375 accrual rate, 9 days (72 hours) annual, 10 days (80 hours) max accrual.
- Full-Time < 5 years service: 5.0 accrual rate, 15 days (120 hours) annual, 30 days (240 hours) max accrual.
- Full-Time >= 5 years service: 6.67 accrual rate, 20 days (160 hours) annual, 30 days max accrual.
- Leadership: 6.67 accrual rate, 20 days (160 hours) annual, 30 days max accrual.
PTO Payout: Resigning employees with proper notice (30 days for Leadership, 2 weeks for others) get 100% of accrued PTO paid out, provided they have no active disciplinary actions.

PERSONAL DAYS
Up to 2 days (16 hours) annually. Do not roll over.

RESIGNATION
Notice period: 1 month for Leadership, 2 weeks for other employees. Exit interview required. Return all company equipment.
